cd /home/usuario/reporting-mensual

claude -p "
FINANCIAL REPORTING PIPELINE — JANUARY 2025

PHASE 1 — OBTAIN AND VALIDATE
Read datos/facturacion-enero.csv, datos/gastos-enero.csv, datos/cobros-enero.csv,
and datos/presupuesto-q1.csv. Record rows, hashes, columns, types,
currency, period, and exceptions in informes/validacion-enero.md.
Use Decimal amounts with two decimal places; dates must be in January 2025.
Stop delivery if a critical source or valid field is missing.
A clearly identified partial draft is allowed; it must not be sent.

PHASE 2 — PREPARE
Filter status Issued in invoices; report Draft separately.
Group invoiced amounts by client. Separate Paid/Pending expenses.
Reconcile collections by invoice identity: do not sum files without
resolving duplicates, credits, partial payments, and differences.
Filter budget month January and document the comparison basis.
Retain source rows and an exception report.

PHASE 3 — ANALYZE
Calculate issued invoicing, reconciled collections, collected/invoiced ratio
(only with a valid denominator), and paid/pending expenses by category.
Do not call invoiced amounts minus paid expenses operating margin: these
mix accrual and cash bases. Only calculate margin with income and expenses
on the same accounting basis and with sufficient evidence.
Compare budget and actual by category on the same basis; budget is not
actual spending. Mark missing data and zero denominators.
Identify top invoicing, variances, receivables, and outstanding payments.

PHASE 4 — PREPARE DELIVERY
Generate informes/informe-financiero-enero-2025.md with an executive summary,
defined KPIs, income by client and collections, excluded drafts,
expenses by category and state, budget versus actual, evidence-based
recommendations, and validation appendix. Trace each amount to its source.
Check totals and European numeric format 1.234,56 EUR before presentation.
Wait for human review. Do not email or publish automatically.
Record failure causes and return an error; do not declare success.
For this fixture, require a unique client and concept match between
invoices and collections; record absent unique IDs and due dates.
Do not classify balances as overdue or recognize income from Issued status.
"
